We created a basic programme that
we can run on the command line.
We are using a main function here.
And we also talked about
working with files.
So we worked with a cities dot JSON file.
In our example here, we need to input
JSON from the standard library,
and then we can go ahead and
work with this file.
Now, if we wanted to loop over
each city in this list and
also provide the index we can use
the enumerate function to do that.
And remember that using the open keyword
on its own is frowned upon because it
doesn't do any of that resource
cleanup that you need to do when
you're working with files.
So make sure that when you are working
with files, you use a context manager.
So here when I say with open,
everything that is indented under
that with statement will get
sandwiched in between the code
that opens the file and
then automatically closes it and
handles any exceptions without you
having to worry or think about it.
When we handle exceptions,
we use a try and accept block.
Here we are accepting
on a JSON decode error,
the most specific error possible for
this particular exercise.
And then we can print out a specific
error message as well as telling the user
Hey, sorry.
There was an error
decoding that JSON file.
We talked a little bit about
using the requests library,
about getting a response,
parsing that response that comes back and
response .JSON.
Before you use the request library, you
need to make sure that you go ahead and
install it in your virtual end with
PIP Otherwise, it's an external package.
It's not part of the standard library.
So when you try to import it if
you don't have it installed,
you're going to see an error.
There is some additional practice here for
working with the request library that I
recommend you go through on your own time.
Remember that a Python has a huge standard
library with a huge number of packages.
If you wanna do something,
there's probably a package included.
You can use some of the more
common ones in this practice.
Here we create a new file and
we use the OS module which stands for
operating system.
To get the current working directory
sis is another common Lee used library.
You can use sis to read command line
arguments if you're trying to run your
Python program as a script and
pass in variables on the command line.
Remember that pypi is
the Python package index and
it's a service that helps you find third
party Python libraries and packages.
But be mindful to type in the right
thing not have any typos because
there are instances where there
have been malicious packages
that have lived at mistyped names,
you can search pypi from the website,
you can also use it on
the command line as well.
And to install packages just do
Python dash m pip install requests.
That command is a little bit more
verbose than just doing pip install
Which you might see in other examples and
tutorials.
But this guarantee is that you
are using the right version of PIP for
your version Python and I promise you
it will save you lots and lots of pain.
I'm not going to cover adding
tests at the moment but
tests in Python are extremely important.
So, if you go back to any chapters,
I recommend that you visit this one.